---
layout: post
title: MIT 600L Lecture 5 cont. 
date: 17:20:00 +1000
categories: python, OSSU, compsci
---

#Lecture 5 Continued

Had a sleep post night shift and took H to the pool...she can dive down and get sinkies in the deep end now! crazy. 


anyways back to the task at hand...

___


### **Lecture 5** Floats and Approximation Methods 

___


[this is really handy...PythonTutor](http://pythontutor.com/)

so fractions and finding their binary numbers..

```
#############

# x = float(input('Enter a decimal number between 0 and 1: '))

# p = 0
# while ((2**p)*x)%1 != 0:
#     print(f'Remainder = {str((2**p)*x - int((2**p)*x))}')
#     p += 1

# num = int(x*(2**p))

# result = ''
# if num == 0:
#     result = '0'
# while num > 0:
#     result = str(num%2) + result
#     num = num//2

# for i in range(p - len(result)):
#     result = '0' + result

# result = result[0:-p] + '.' + result[-p:]
# print(f'The binary representation of the decimal {str(x)} is {str(result)}')


################
```

The morale of the story with floats is that you don't want to use the ```==``` "equal to" to test floats...because what is stored in memory is an approximation with a marginal error that quickly accumulates each time the number is iterated over...  
  
Thus, be careful when designing algorithms that use floats...  
  
(I need to watch this lecture again a couple of times, but what I understand is that when converting base10 to base2 with floats some numbers are very long, potentially infinite, so the computer memory stores it as an approximation).  
___
___

### onto approximation methods

previously went over guess and check, but guess and check is self-limiting. i.e. guess and check value for perfect square root (algorithim would either give perfect square, or tell us it didn't have a perfect square root').

  
hang on, ***epsilon number***...le what?  


OpenAI to the rescue?  
Apparently this represents (often times) machine epsilon which is the smallest difference detectable between two floating-point numbers.  
in python you can access *machine epsilon* (approx. 2.22x10^-16).  
sometimes it represents a margin of error...is that what we will use it for with floating point algorithms.  




## Approximation here we go...

the algorthim (finding square root of given number):  
- find an answer that is "good enough"
    + uses epsilon to go through every guess and find the one that is within 1 epsilon of the right value. 
- 1st start with guess way too small
- 2nd increment the guess by a small value
- 3rd check if guess**2 is close enough to whole number we are trying to find root of
- 4th continue until answer gets close enough to actual answer (within epsilon)
    + can choose epsilon so can determine margin of error

*sidebar*
...just had to trouble shoot spyder on linux mint...doesn't like it, will have to use VS code or pycharm
vs code already installed...
(no idea what changed but I rolled back to a previous timeshift of mint, was getting some display glitching as well.)

it seems to correspond with creating a kali bootable usb and trying to test booting off it...(I went back to ubtuntu LTS...I am now a distro hopper).

*back to it* 

update: 

here is the guess and check algorithm: 

```
x = integer (can be any large number we want)
epsilon = 0.01
num_guesses = 0
guess = 0.0
increment - 0.0001

while abs(guess**2 - x) >= epsilon and guess**2 <= x: 
    guess += increment
    num_guesses += 1
print('num guesses =', num_guesses)
if abs (guess**2 - x) >= eipsolon: 
    print('Failed to find square root of', x) 
else: 
    print(guess, 'is close to square root of', + x)
```



Coming up next is bisection searches I think...will have to be on another post :) 

Eddie(WTR)











