---
layout: post
title: Visualising your data
categories: datacamp, compsci, datascience
date: 18:00:00 +1000
---

Diving back into datacamp...the first Master of Digital Health subject is big data and health analytics, which will involve more datascience and querying SQL.  


My goal is to finish these datacamp modules before term starts up in March. 

# Visualising your data
## Histograms

`import matplotlib.pyplot as plt`

plt is the standard alias for pyplot from matplotlib. 

***for a histogram:***
subset the dataframe and call .hist()  
you have to tell python to show the plot as well using plt.show()


`dataframe["column"].hist()`  
`plt.show()`  


can tell pyplot to change the amount of "bins" used (bars on the histogram).   
  
  
you add the bins argument to .hist(). e.g. `dataframe["column"].hist(bins=20)`


***bar plots***  
"reveal relationships between a categorical variable and numeric variable"  


example:  
breeds of dog as a categorical variable and weight as a numeric variable....

first you need to group the dataframe by the categorical variable: 
e.g. `dogdataframe.groupby("breed")` then you call the mean of the weights within those categories by subsetting and using .mean() `["weight_kg"].mean()` 

put those together and you get a new variable: 

```
avg_weight_by_breed = dogdataframe.groupby("breed)["weight_kg"].mean()  
av_weight_by_breed.plot(kind="bar")  
plt.show()  
```

***line plots***  
show changes to a variable over time. 

```
dataframe.plot(x="variable", y="variable", kind="line")  
plt.show()
```

can also rotate the x axis labels using `rot=` this will rotate it by any given number of degrees e.g. 45 degrees if rot=45. 


***Scatter Plots***  
Good for exploring relationship between two numeric variables  
e.g. height vs weight of our dog dataframe...

```
dogdataframe.plot(x="height", y="weight", kind="scatter")  
plt.show()
```

***layering plots***  
can layer plots on top of eachother. 

e.g. two histograms comparing heights of male and female dogs...

```
dogs[dogs["sex"]=="F"]["height"].hist(alpha=0.7)
dogs[dogs["sex"]=="M"]["height"].hist(alpha=0.7)
plt.legend(["F", "M"])
plt.show()
```

in that example we call two histograms on top of eachother...  
`plt.legend()` gives the plot a legend so you know which colour is assigned to which variable...  
`.hist(alpha=0.7)` tells the plot to make transparent bars so you one isn't hidden behind the other. 

in this chapter we work on some data about avacados in the USA. 

Eddie(WTR)

