---
layout: post
title: Master of Digital Health at Latrobe!
date: 2025-01-24 11:10:00 +1000
categories: blogging, beginning, digital health
---

# Enrolled in Subject Number 1! 

I have enrolled in the master of digital health at latrobe and can't wait to dive in. 

Hopefully the OSSU work and Datacamp work has prepped me well for the Comp Sci components. 

I must admit that I was VERY tempted to select the cybersecurity specialisation, but I figure I can get what I want out of resources like overthewire.org and focus on formal subjects that open up new jobs and career progression in the health sector. 

**Term 2** 
begins March...

The first subject is *Big Data and Health Analytics* which is something I am very passionate about, expecially for driving efficiency and change at the ward unit level operationally, optimising patient flow, and hopefully pushing our hospitals here in QLd to front as role models for health systems. 

I dream of a time when everyone walks into and out of work with pride knowing they are helping the community whilst feeling safe and valued. Maybe one day we can be in the enviable position of having other health systems ask "how did you do that?".




### how far behind are we? 

current year: *2025* 
first digital hospital opened in Australia: *2014* (here in Qld)

So only 11 years behind ourselves so far. 

I got curious and wondered when the first digital hospital was opened, which seems to be a bit trickier to tease out...however, the Donauspital in Vienna was opened in 1992!

Two years after I was born one of the first fully digitised hospitals opened...

I turn 35 tomorrow, and we are still pulling paper charts and spending inoordinate amounts of time trying to track them down around the ward. 

[The Donauspital - Vienna](https://healthcare-in-europe.com/en/news/europe-s-first-fully-digitised-hospital.html#:~:text=Way%20back%20in%201988%2C%20Professor,first%2C%20fully%2Ddigitised%20hospital.)


Eddie(WTR)
